are you impacted directly by Rising
interest rates let's find out in today's
video we are going to look at what's
happening with individuals just like you
but also small businesses large
businesses and how they are starting to
go bankrupt that's what we'll discuss
here you came here for the truth so let
me unveil that for you you see we need
to look at this information and follow
it along see what's going on with
student debt look at Rising credit card
debt and the EXP enses that are brought
along with it once we know that
information we identify the problem and
then of course we learn how to thrive
and prosper despite it all let's begin
so here we have the first thing is that
workers are unhappiest that they've been
in 3 years and it could cost the global
economy apparently $8.8 trillion people
are disgruntled workers are disgruntled
they're saying I'm not going back to the
office I want all these things and I'm
going to get what I want businesses are
having to pay much more money for labor
than they did before there are a lot of
things that are happening right now
which are very unique and we hadn't seen
for quite some time right but at the
same time we've got this issue that is
going on in which people are in the most
debt that they've ever been before and
as I record this video mortgage rates in
the United States are getting closer and
closer and closer to
8% this is unbelievable when you think
about the average mortgage my goodness
this is interesting now here we have
something else federal student loan
payments are due for the first time in
since 2020 and that is an issue of
course because the average payment is
about
$400 and when they're doing this $400
here that's $400 that's not going back
into the economy that's purely debt
that's purely debt and so we see that at
this time people are spending more and
they're also the most stretched that
they've been yes they're spending
there's no question about that but
they're also spending on for instance if
they go to a restaurant they're spending
more in that same restaurant they would
have gone before it's just more dollars
okay go get a glass of wine at some of
these restaurants and the price is you
know almost G up by 50 % even some cases
doubled for something very simple one
simple item on the menu loss of
purchasing power was expected how do I
know that do I have some special access
to some government agency no it's
because I've studied the history and
whenever we have a time frame in which
we have super easy monetary policies
that means a lot of money Printing and
like really low interest rates once we
get into that environment we have a loss
of purchasing power at some point later
you don't know if it's a year you don't
know if it's 10 years whatever the case
is when you do this especially when you
stretch that out for a long period you
get a loss of purchasing power so that's
what we're dealing with right now the
fact remains is that we've moved from
about $9 trillion on the federal
reserve's balance sheet down to right
now as I record this about $8 trillion
they managed to get rid of $1 trillion
off their balance sheet how are they
ever going to get anywhere near what
they used to call
normalization of that balance sheet they
can't so we can expect more and more
inflation so what does that mean
businesses are hurting and they're going
under so we can expect that if this
continues that you may see more layoffs
we're already seeing that somewhat right
now as I record this yes we we did see
that with the tech industry indry but
right now because of what's going on
with uh the unions UAW United Auto
Workers these companies the big um
establishments for the car manufacturers
they're laying people off so we can
expect that it might continue on in
other places as well Food Stamps will be
harder to get from October so food
stamps that's one issue student loans
that's another issue buy now pay later
that's on top of it as well and of
course credit card debt at at least 22%
interest my
goodness here we go soft Landing calls
always prede a recession that's right
and how many times have you heard soft
Landing Jerome Powell said it's so many
times I started reacting to the word
soft Landing I thought that was my name
I just I heard it so many times that I
was just soft Landing yes is that me no
oh sorry it was repeated so often from
the FED to the bankers the analysts the
YouTubers soft Landing soft Ling soft
Ling team transitory team transitory how
many times did you hear that don't you
feel a little bit aggravated when I when
I say that you should be a little upset
you should ask put it in the comments
say don't say that again okay we don't
need to hear it anymore that's the world
we live in today it's it's wild the way
that this information comes down it's
from a single point people think that
there's there's all these different
voices out there there's like oh I'm
getting it from this news source I'm
getting it from the there's only one
source and then it gets spread out and
it gets twisted and molded yeah I get
that there's only one source remember
that what are the big businesses doing
you may not be a big business you may
not even be a small business owner and
you may not work for a big business but
we got to understand what they're doing
cuz that's going to start the trend for
everything else 11 retailers are at at
risk of bankruptcy in
2023 and they give you some names uh
over here uh in this list you may
recognize some of them but all I got to
tell you is that it's not unique to
these 11 companies Right Aid is on here
you know you might see some others these
companies let's just say it's like sear
okay so sear has let's say a thousand
stores okay they got a th000 stores they
have you know 100 employees in each of
those stores they have this much real
estate all that real estate requires
power it requires maintenance it
requires like everything okay but in
order to operate that store they don't
have it paid off it's not as if the
company bought that
location outright and they completely
own it no it's it's leased right it's
leased or they have debt on that
property depends okay and so all of that
is based on an interest rate when when
they were borrowing super low interest
rates anything's
possible problem is with commercial real
estate you borrow at shorter time frames
than you would with your typical
mortgage and so these things coming up
right now are just smashing these
retailers they're doing the same in
office retail and office are getting
killed right now stay away from it don't
touch that thing with a 10- foot pole
unless you want a very contrarian bet to
that all right retail default set to
jump this year that's according to
moodies and not surprised about that at
all you could see the details but I
think it's pretty clear yes there's the
theft the obvious things you're seeing
in the news but at the same time they
screwed up in 2020 they ordered way too
much stuff first they were like oh we
don't we don't have enough inventory
everyone's buy needs you know 7 72 pairs
of Lululemon pant we we we better order
more and they were chartering their own
ships to get these things and then
putting them at ports that were not La
Long Beach they were going to these
other ports let's find a spot anywhere
we could put it so they were putting
them there getting that stuff to the
store oh and then it finally gets to the
store oh we don't need it anymore you
got to wonder was it just poor planning
was it a bunch of something's weird odd
circumstances no question small business
bankruptcies surge in 2020 three look
it's not the big businesses it's the
small ones too it's individuals as well
like all of this is going up as expected
during these times you encounter higher
rates higher borrowing costs that people
can't keep up and you might ask what can
I do well let's talk about some of that
right now right first things first
eliminate all bad debt how can you do
that right here this is compass you can
see that at themoney gps.com you go
through compass and one of the options
in there you see that button on the
bottom left that button there says word
Compass you click in there Compass is my
program is totally free you go in there
and one of the sections is about debt
and I help you um very simply to figure
out a way to get out of your bad debt
circumstance so that's the very first
thing next look for tax
rebates financial hardship you basically
want to reduce your expenses all right
so that means you you could be taking
advantage of things that you're maybe
not and and so you've got to do that
everything that you can you might want
to look it up online you might want to
search things like even like Tik Tok
might be a resource to start your search
because they mention things that might
apply to like you know 2% of people
maybe you're one of those 2% so so look
into it all right because a lot of times
you'll find that the accountants and
things they do their job but they don't
necessar necessarily know every little
tax loophole and all these things okay
that's not what they're there for you've
got to know and you could bring it up to
them you could show them this
information and they could help you with
that potentially so that's the next
thing you've got to be able to of course
uh look anywhere you can get financial
hardship so maybe you owe some debt
somewhere understand financial hardship
a lot of these companies your service
providers and everything contact them
talk about financial hardship if you can
prove that a lot of times they are
willing to give you a break so take
advantage
when you can all right and then start a
small business look for businesses in
demand these things a lot of them
despite the conditions they are in
demand people do more repairs now than
they would have before they would have
just thrown it away now they want to do
more repairs they want to stretch their
dollar a little bit more there's a a
million different businesses that apply
to that look at what happened during
2020 oh we can't go on vacation we're
going to put a pool in the backyard you
know we we can't go out out and spend
money out there we're going to spend it
on our house we're going to do
Renovations so there's lots of things
that you can do right now to take
advantage of the circumstances most
businesses the big businesses especially
will contract during these times they
weather the storm they contract they'll
hibernate inside IND doors in the caves
they hibernate like a bear and then they
wait for it all to be safe and then they
they come out when everything's all safe
you the individual you're going to seek
it out as an opportunity you're going to
swoop in and you're going to take
advantage of that I hope that you do the
money gps.com go through Compass get
your debt circumstance and there's a
many different sections in compass but
uh the death one is what we're talking
about here today totally free the money
gps.com and of course the comment of the
day I thank you for your comment talk to
a friend about the coming cbdc and how
after losing everything in the coming
collaps and Banks taking everything
Americans own like savings retirement
brokerage accounts we will thank the
government for making people whole by
issuing their cbdc as a savior
replacement currency he's a big saver
and he got mad and said he can't live in
conspiracy theories well let me tell you
the government is telling us in many
cases that the cbdc is coming look at
what China's doing look at what Brazil's
doing and what do they what do they all
have what have they all said all of them
have said we want the ability to control
the flow of money we want to be able to
turn it on and turn it off they've all
said this they want interconnectedness
of governments around the world they
want to be able to control the money
supply and they already do but they want
an advanced level of that and they're
pushing for it so they need though to to
get something as big as a cbdc to be
brought out there they need a crisis and
then in a crisis people will beg for it
you got to understand how it works
crisis first and then the solution
provided that's my video for today did
you appreciate it if you did simply hit
that Thumbs Up Button by doing so you're
literally notifying other people out
there that this was some good
informative stuff so I hope you
appreciate what we did we looked at what
the problem we had some problem
awareness and then we were saying okay
what does it actually mean okay good
stuff and then we looked at how to
thrive how to prosper during these most
difficult times that's what all the
formula for all my videos and we're
going to get even deeper on future ones
I hope that you'll join me for that I'll
see you tomorrow take care